My name is Tim Chernia.
I'm manager of the
QuickTime Pro Video team at Apple.
So we're going to talk about Pro Video.
So why Pro Video?
Well,
it's good to have a team for Pro Video.
QuickTime has a lot of customers
as you've probably seen either by
seeing Tim's session this morning
or seeing the interactivity
session that was just before mine,
or seeing the broadcasting
session that follows.
So QuickTime has a lot of customers,
but it's also the foundation of a lot
of core high-end video technology,
shipping and apps from both
Apple and other companies
such as Adobe and Media 100.
So it has unique demands in that space.
The demands tend to be it
must have high quality,
it must have high performance,
it has to work well with
the hardware that you get.
We have hardware now from companies like
Matrox and Pinnacle and Digital Voodoo
and Aurora which work using
QuickTime in the apps we talked about.
And you have to have consistent
results because you're going to
take this material and maybe go
on air or make it in a movie.
So it's very, very important.
So that's why we're
specializing in pro video,
that's why we have a pro video team.
So what about you guys?
This session is targeted towards
developers who are writing video editing
or video processing applications.
It can be from the high end,
it can be from just simple ones
which can make the experience of
using things like iMovie easier.
It's also targeted towards codec
writers who are writing either
software codecs or hardware codecs.
and this will basically give
you some extra information.
So the things we're going
to talk about today.
We're going to talk about some
improvements we've done in QuickTime 5,
which makes your rendering
experience better.
We're going to talk about improvements
for supporting hardware cards,
such as the ones I talked about,
and ways that you can take
advantage of asynchronous
operations and multiprocessing on
our high-end Macintosh systems.
And some future things we're going
to do with our effects architecture.
And finally,
some help in migrating your video
hardware towards OS X as a platform.
So, I'm going to talk about rendering.
And when I talk about rendering,
I'm really talking about taking
some compressed material,
decompressing it,
and typically then you'd apply
some sort of effect to it,
a video effect, let's say a blur,
and then recompress it back
to the original material.
That's a typical workflow
experience or experience inside
a video editing app where you,
let's say,
wanted to do a cross-resolve between two
streams of DV and you would render it.
So you decompress the two streams of DV,
you combine them,
you recompress it back to DV,
and then you can send it out FireWire.
So the improvements we've
done in that space are we've
improved some gamma processing.
We've also added a new
pixel format called R408.
And of course we've
improved the DV codec,
which is something that Tim talked about,
and I'll show you some of
the results we got there.
So my favorite first topic is gamma.
And I'm going to talk about
gamma sort of a little overview.
But basically, gamma,
when I'm talking about it,
I'm talking about the non-linearity
of intensity reproduction,
which is basically that you have an input
value and you have an output intensity.
And there's a relationship between the
input value and the output intensity.
And it's not always linear
like the diagram at the right.
It has a curve.
It has a power curve.
And this relationship could
apply to either the camera,
a video camera,
or it could apply to just a
CRT monitor or maybe a LCD monitor.
It can also apply to
the system as a whole,
for example,
the Macintosh or your television.
So, the issue is that there's
different gamma for the different
systems that QuickTime deals with.
We have video, which has a gamma which
is established at 2.2,
and the Macintosh,
the gamma is established at 1.8,
and Windows is basically using
the native values of the CRT,
which is 2.5.
So, why is that a problem for video
rendering is that because QuickTime knows
that videos such as DV is at 2.2,
and it wants to make it look correct
when we display it on the Macintosh
for applications such as iMovie when
you're doing the preview on the desktop,
we do a gamma correction stage to bring
the image to look closer to what it
would look like if you had a NTSC monitor
next to your Macintosh monitor.
And so that works really, really well,
except it makes it a little bit
more difficult to see what the
image is going to look like.
So, we've come up with some
problems for video rendering.
I'm going to show you the gamma
correction that I was talking
about afterwards in my demo.
So, the solution that we've come up with
is that we allow applications now
to specify the gamma that they want.
They can say, "I want you to give me what
the source gamma was," or,
"I want you to make it gamma 2.0," or,
"I want you to make it gamma 2.2." So,
not only can you specify what the gamma
would be via some gamma APIs we've done,
you can also find out what
the gamma actually was,
which is really useful.
So, let's see how that works.
And Codex can specify the
gamma that they prefer.
They can say,
"My private or custom pixel format
compression format has a gamma of,
let's say, 2.2," and, therefore,
when you decompress it,
if you ask for the source gamma,
it'll be 2.2.
So, there's no more guessing.
You can basically choose the
gamma that you want to process
your video rendering in,
and you get what you want.
So, pixel formats.
Key thing about rendering is you
go from a compressed pixel format
to some sort of a pixel format
you're going to do the rendering in.
And the typical choices out
there would be RGB or YUV.
RGB has its advantage in that
it's native for graphics.
A lot of people have
used it for many years.
It also has an optional alpha
channel So you can use it to
do compositing fairly easily.
YUV has the advantage that
it's native for video,
and typically it's
stored in a 4:2:2 format,
which means that there's two samples
of Luma for every chroma pair.
The U and V refer to the chroma
and the Y refers to Luma.
So it's sub-sampled,
which means it's good for storing.
It kind of represents
what your eye can see.
In other words,
your eye is more sensitive
to luma compared to chroma.
But it's basically, well,
it's hard for rendering,
which is kind of my next slide.
And of course, there's no alpha channel.
So the problems with RGB and YUV,
RGB has the extra color space
conversion to go back and forth
from YUV since the data would
typically be native YUV for video.
It also can clamp the video
because the color space is
smaller than the YUV space.
So with YUV, the problem is that
there's no alpha channel,
so if you wanted to do compositing,
you're kind of out of luck.
It's not really friendly for that.
And it's also hard to process
because it's sub-sampled,
so if you just wanted to move
your YUV image by one pixel,
all of a sudden you have this
problem because you have to
move the chroma and luma around,
or the chroma around,
because it was sub-sampled.
And also, the standard black value
for YUV video is 16,
so every time you do an operation on YUV,
you're busy adding and
subtracting 16 on it,
so we didn't quite like that.
So QuickTime came up with R408,
and R408 is really nice.
It's video-friendly,
which means it's YUV-based.
It's not sub-sampled.
[Transcript missing]
So now I get to show you a little
demo of this stuff working.
Let me switch to demo four, please.
All right.
So what I'm going to show
is a little application
And what I'm doing in this application
is I'm taking a DV clip and I'm
decompressing it to an off-screen
in a pixel format that I can choose.
And I'm taking the resulting decompressed
image and recompressing it back to DV.
And I take that DV frame and
I re-decompress it and keep doing that.
In my tests I do it 60 times.
So I basically can see the results
of a multi-generational render.
So I can see the losses that we
had or have with the DV codec.
So let me just open up a file.
This is...
Andrew, this is Kevin Mark's son,
and he's holding a
ball which he's moving,
so you can see over here
there's a lot of motion,
and that basically has interesting
effects on the DV compression and
decompression that we were testing,
and you can see that there's
a lot of detail in his hair,
and so he's our test clip for today.
And the first thing I wanted to
show is why we're using gamma,
why we gamma correct DV.
So this is a source clip, it's DV,
and right now we're gamma
correcting it so that it looks
good on a Macintosh monitor,
and I can turn that off,
and now it's off and it
looks a lot brighter.
And now what I'm doing is I'm
actually using the gamma APIs to
specify what I want the gamma
of the display to look like.
The gamma of actually not the display,
but of the PIX map, the port PIX map.
So I can switch it back to video gamma,
and it's not gamma correcting,
so it looks brighter, too bright.
I can set it back to default gamma,
it looks dark.
Natively,
it's going to use the default gamma,
and we're going to show how you can use
the gamma APIs to fix up your rendering.
So the first test I'm going to do
is I'm going to do a test where
I render the clip through 2VUI.
And when I did that,
you'll see the resulting clip
degrades every step quite a lot
because I didn't actually set that
I wanted to use 2.2 as my gamma.
It's converting every
step on the decompression,
but it's not properly
converting on the compression.
So now I can do the same test on 2VUI.
And now you'll see that it
looks basically perfectly.
I can play this and it looks perfectly.
I can scrub through it.
And you see that I've
used the gamma API to say,
please decompress this at 2.2
so that when I recompress it,
there's no gamma shift.
So I've avoided any gamma processing
at all in that rendering cycle.
I want to talk a little bit about the
pixel format that I've chosen to use.
So you're going to see two impacts
of me choosing R408 over RGB.
And the first impact is performance
and the second one is quality.
So I have two seconds of
video that I've just rendered,
basically done this
multigenerational test to.
One frame and I've done 60 frames.
And so my two seconds of video
took 2.4 seconds to process
on this machine through RGB.
And so that's just a
little under real time.
And you can see that if I go to the last
frame you can see some artifacts appear
because of the losses going through RGB.
And so that's not good.
So we did the same test
going through R408,
which is the YUV format.
And the first thing that
is pretty impressive is it
takes 1.4 milliseconds to do.
So that's faster than real-time to do
the decompression and recompression.
And the other thing that's really
notable about it is the quality.
So I can't see that image change.
In fact, it really doesn't.
Transcript for this session:
"How to Use QuickTime for
Video" by Tim Cherna
That's all,
the stuff was all shown on QuickTime 5.
So with QuickTime 4.1.2,
the first thing I can read,
I guess you can't read,
but it took 5.8 seconds to do
the same test versus 1.3 seconds
to do the test on QuickTime 5.
So you can see the
improvements in performance.
The other thing is, as we play it,
you can see that there's a fair
lot of artifacts that we had in,
anyway, QuickTime 5 is much, much better.
So, let me just quit these things
so that the next demos are good.
And that's pretty much all
I'm going to talk about.
Can we go back to the slides please?
So now I'm going to ask Jean-Michel
Berthoud to come up and talk about
some improvements in hardware support.
Hi, my name is Jean-Michel Berthoud and
I work in the QuickTime Pro Video Group.
And I'm going to talk about a
couple of features that we have
added in QuickTime 5.0 in order
to improve hardware support.
So the first thing that needs
to work is the remote control.
Okay, that's called hardware improvement,
right?
Okay,
so the first thing that QuickTime for
use to do is to assume that all
codec can decompress right away.
And for software implementation,
it's pretty easy to
understand that you can start
decompressing whenever you want.
When you have to deal
with a piece of hardware,
it's much more difficult.
Usually, I mean,
third-party developers have been able to
manage to deal with this issue because
I mean,
the time it was taking to set up their
first decompression was not that much,
actually.
But during the development
of QuickTime 5.0,
we ran into some third party which
were trying to bring up their
hardware and support QuickTime.
And this time to decompress
the first frame was quite huge.
And what was happening is that
QuickTime was getting upset because
it was totally unable to understand
that the first frame was going to
take a while to show up on screen,
but the next one after that will be fine.
That's a concept that we
didn't have before 5.0.
I'm trying again.
Okay, that didn't work.
So the solution was to make
QuickTime aware of this latency.
And the way you are reporting this
latency is by using a new API that
we have put on the Codec side,
which is called ImageCodec
Get Decompress Latency.
So basically your Codec does report
its internal pipeline duration
and make QuickTime aware that it's
going to take you a long time to
start decompressing the first frame.
The next one,
which are coming after that,
will be fine.
So as soon as QuickTime, I mean,
use a codec which reports latency,
what internally we're going to do,
we're going to start
your video track earlier,
and the movie will start when your
hardware pipeline is totally full,
so you have a chance to decompress
the first frame at the right time.
So that's what the new latency
support in QuickTime 5.0.
And we also extended this
latency mechanism to audio track.
So the concept is identical,
and the way QuickTime is
talking to audio devices through
the sound output component.
So we've added a new selector
called SI output latency.
Using some get component get info
and same thing there if your audio
device has some internal pipeline,
you just need to report that
to QuickTime and will offset
the audio track as well.
So QuickTime can deal with
different latency between
audio track and video track.
The only assumption that we
still have is that if all the
video codecs in this video track
need to report the same latency.
So another assumption that
QuickTime did have before FIBO.
When you have a system which
has multiple codecs able to
decompress the same kind of data,
we needed to choose one.
Right?
So, the one we chose, of course,
was the one which was the fastest one.
Because every codec is
supposed to report their speed.
I mean, internally,
If you had two DV codecs
installed on your system,
we were getting the speed for
each of these codecs and making
the one we used the one claiming
that we were the fastest one.
Of course, this scheme assumes that
these codecs don't lie,
right?
Well, they do.
It's too bad, right?
But they don't have
that much other option.
Basically what's happening is that
you pay for this piece of hardware
and you stick that in your system
and they want to be the one that
QuickTime is going to use by default.
And the only way for them to
make that happen was to claim
that they are faster than,
for instance,
the software upon implementation.
But it was getting worse because
when you start having two pieces
of hardware in the same machine,
I mean, everybody was trying to
look at the other guy,
Kodak,
figure out what their speed and claim
that they were faster than the other one,
right?
Of course,
that's not really a viable solution
and we used to call that the Kodak
speed war internally whenever
he was trying to claim that they
were faster than the other one.
So what we did in 5.0 was to
finally let the application decide
which codec they want to use when.
So we did end up this codec war.
At least we hope so.
So the way an application can specify
this preferred codec is to use this new
API called mediaset_preferred_codec.
By using that,
you provide QuickTime a list
of codecs you prefer to use.
Internally,
what QuickTime is going to do is
to still sort all of them by speed.
At the end of the sort,
what we're going to do is put
the codec you've given us in
this list at the top of the list.
So it's definitely a much better
solution than the speed information,
which was the only information
we had before in QuickTime.
And it makes application setup
much easier when they decide
to set up a user project,
trying to understand which piece of
hardware or software they want to use.
You might have your system setup,
for instance, doing a FireWire DB input,
and have another piece of hardware
which is capable of sending
DB data to an analog output,
and you really want to let the user
and the application be able to select
which one they want to use at one point.
So just one more thing
about hardware codec.
If your hardware has implemented
a custom compression type,
what's happening is that when
you create your content with
this codec in your movie,
if your end user does have the
hardware installed in your system,
you're fine.
You can play back this movie.
If you try to have this content play on a
system which doesn't have your hardware,
then you need to provide a software
implementation of your hardware codec,
right?
Well, the problem is that the user has
no idea what he's looking for when
he's running into a movie like that.
He doesn't know where the
content has been altered,
he doesn't know which
company is making what codec,
so it's quite a bad
user experience for him.
So the solution is to use our new
mechanism in QuickTime 5 to do
this automatic component download.
And all that you have to do if you have
a custom hardware codec is register
your software implementation with Apple.
And we will get it directly
from our own server as soon as
your end user will run into it.
So that's pretty much it about
hardware and QuickTime 5.0.
Let's talk about MP and QuickTime on Mac.
Thank you.
Thank you Jean-Michel.
My name is Sam Bushell and I'd like to
take a little time to talk to you about
QuickTime on multiprocessor Macintoshes.
Multiprocessor Macintoshes are great,
right?
And they're great because
they have more processors.
If you have more processors
than the other guy then you win!
Well, maybe.
In practice,
people want to buy a machine with
two processors because they'd like
everything to run twice as fast.
It turns out, if you're an engineer,
you probably have some idea of
why it doesn't quite work so well.
And so as engineers,
we have to do a little bit of work
to make this hope satisfiable.
Now, sometimes the user is running more
than one application at the same time,
and those applications,
maybe several of them are
doing compute-bound tasks.
In that case, on Mac OS X,
we automatically get symmetric
multiprocessing that'll schedule
and run all of the applications that
are available to have work to do.
And so that side of the problem is
pretty much sorted out for us now on 10.
But sometimes only one
application is doing any work.
In that case,
we have to do a bit more work
to divide that work up across
the available processes.
Now, in the QuickTime case, there are
A bunch of different bits of
work to be done on the system,
but the majority of them
tend to be done by codecs.
And so the work that we've
done with QuickTime to support
multiprocessor computers and
multiprocessing is primarily focused
on making the codecs run faster.
So it's a team effort.
In QuickTime generally,
if you have an application
that uses QuickTime and there
are some codecs involved,
the application calls QuickTime,
QuickTime calls some component,
the codec runs for a
while doing some work,
and when it's done it
returns the application.
So let's look at how this team
effort might be made faster to take
advantage of dual-processor computer.
If you're lucky,
you might be able to take the work
that Kodak is doing and divide
it evenly across two processes.
If you're not so lucky,
it might not be applicable,
but it might be possible to run
that decompression or that Kodak
work asynchronously and let the
application do some other work,
maybe some other decompression for
the next frame at the same time.
In more detail,
this is the first approach.
If you can split up your work across
a bunch of multiprocessor tasks,
then they can be run
all at the same time.
And when they're all done,
they all return.
So this is still a synchronous API.
The application asks you to do the work,
and when you're done, you return.
And you've taken up all of the
CPUs available in the meantime.
This is the best situation because the
applications don't need to be revised.
They can keep using
those synchronous APIs.
And there are high performance
gains possible as we've
demonstrated with the dbCodec.
The trouble is it's harder.
And it's not something you can
easily do with all algorithms.
Sometimes step one has to
be done before step two,
and step two has to be
done before step three.
And so you can't do step one, two,
and three all at the same time.
In those situations you
need to take a step back.
Re-evaluate how you'd like to go,
and maybe it's okay to run the entire
job that you want to do in a single
MP task asynchronously from what the
rest of the application is doing.
This is a smaller change to the codec,
and in fact it can be a really small
change if QuickTime can help you out.
The trouble is, it doesn't actually make
that task any faster.
It just takes as long.
Maybe if the application
has something else to do,
then it's a win overall.
But the corollary of this
is that in order to take
advantage of this situation,
the applications do need to be revised
and maybe restructured to take advantage
of this using asynchronous APIs.
So in QuickTime 5,
we've used both approaches to taking
advantage of multiprocessor computers.
have revised the DV Compressor
and Decompressor,
as you've probably heard
a number of times by now,
to split up their work across the
available processes in the computer.
We've revised some of
the other compressors and
decompressors in QuickTime to
be able to run asynchronously.
And I have a little demonstration
of this that I'd like to show you,
which is over here on demo four.
Now this is an application that I wrote
for debugging and analysis purposes,
but I'd like to use it here as a
technology demonstration to give
you an idea of something that
might be an applicable use of both
of these kinds of technologies,
both the method A and method
B for splitting up work on
a dual processor computer.
We have back here is a dual
processor 500 megahertz G4,
and my application,
you probably can't see all
of the text on the screen,
it doesn't matter,
it's not very interesting,
apart from the fact that it has a
bunch of different bit rates listed.
And we have a DV camera here,
and it's pointed at you,
and this is what you look like.
[Transcript missing]
Modem rates.
So you might have the first,
the 12 kilobit of video for a 28k modem,
24 kilobit per second of
video for a 56k modem,
something towards 80 kilobit per
second for a dual ISDN or some other
hundred odd kilobit connection,
and something higher as well
at full 30 frames per second.
But if you're close enough,
then you can probably read that we're not
currently achieving 25 frames per second.
Which makes this look
like a foolish demo,
except that I can point out that
the reason it's lagging behind is
because it's showing you the answers.
And if I turn off the preview so that you
don't get to see yourself on the screen,
then we do reach 30 frames
per second pretty efficiently.
And there's actually quite a bit of
CPU left available on the machine.
So you could take,
what this demonstrates is that
you could take QuickTime 501 and
a dual processor 500 megahertz G4,
and you could prepare.
So you could take a few of these,
multiple compression video streams,
and then you could probably
broadcast them to a
Streaming Reflectors,
which will go out to a
wide range of people.
All in one machine.
This will be a useful product.
And that's my demo.
So among the developers here,
some of you are probably
writing applications.
Those of you who are,
the thing you can do on
multiprocessor Macintoshes is
you can call QuickTime using
the asynchronous compression
APIs instead of synchronous ones.
If you're a codec author,
then you might want to accelerate
your codec to take advantage
of multiprocessor machines,
either using approach A or approach B.
It's up to you.
Let's have a look at these
asynchronous compression APIs first.
QuickTime has always had an asynchronous
mode for the Image Compression
Manager's compression API.
Basically,
the last of these lots of parameters that
describe what you want to compress and
how you want to compress and so forth.
The very last parameter says,
is a completion routine.
And this, you can pass nil,
in which case it won't
return until it's done,
or you can pass a
completion proc in RefCon,
in which case it is allowed
to return immediately,
and when it's actually done
with the compression activity,
then it will call your callback routine,
and you'll know.
Um,
If this is safe to use,
even if a codec doesn't actually
support asynchronous compression,
in that case,
it will return after calling your
callback after everything is done.
The trouble was that there wasn't,
that there's a missing piece here,
because a lot of people who want to
write compression applications want
to use a higher level service called
the standard compression component.
This is the component that provides
a nice friendly dialog box that
you've probably seen a hundred times.
And that component only
had a synchronous API.
So in QuickTime 5 we've added an
API analogous to the asynchronous
compression in the ICM.
I've said the word compression
a lot of times in that slide.
So if you want to read more about that,
I recommend looking at the
QuickTime 5 documentation.
There's lots of good stuff there.
If you're a codec author, then as I said,
you have the two choices.
You can accelerate your codec by calling
the multiprocessor APIs yourself,
creating some tasks,
when we call you to do some work,
splitting that work up across your tasks,
and then waiting until they're
all done and then returning,
or calling the completion routines.
That's great.
If you do that,
you're pretty much on your own.
Although there were some pitfalls I'm
going to warn you about in a second
that you should be careful to avoid.
If you take approach B of running
the entire activity asynchronously
and then calling the completion
routine when you're done,
running the activity
on an MP task that is,
if you're writing a decompressor
and it's based on the base codec,
then QuickTime can help.
All you need to do is write a
little bit of code that promises
that your drawband call is MP safe.
Since drawband calls for video
codecs generally have to be
interrupt safe because they might
be called at deferred task time,
this isn't a big leap.
You really shouldn't be calling
any other APIs besides ones,
just other functions defined in your
own sources in your drawband call.
So generally those things,
as long as they're PowerPC native,
are also safe to run in MP tasks.
So if you write a little bit of code that
promises that everything's cool there,
then we will run you in an MP task.
If applicable,
if we're on a multiprocessor
machine and trying to do an
asynchronous decompression.
Subtitles by the Amara.org community
So there are three pitfalls I'd like
to point out so you have in mind so
you can avoid them moving forward.
I've said that you shouldn't
call anything in drawband.
Some of you who have read
the documentation on Apple's
multiprocessing APIs will say,
no wait, I've read about this.
You're allowed to call all of these
memory allocation routines and
in fact in Mac OS 9.1 and later
you're allowed to call all sorts of
other things like the file system.
Well, you're not allowed to do
that from a codex drawband.
routine.
The reason is that the remote
procedure call that implements some
of these allocations and other calls
That remote procedure call
can only be serviced when
someone in the blue task calls
waitnextevent or one of its friends.
If that doesn't happen,
then you can deadlock.
And sometimes codecs can be called in
situations where we can't let someone
have a chance to call waitnextevent.
So if you need to allocate memory,
do it as before,
before doing anything in drawband.
A second pitfall to avoid,
avoid using your own calls to
the MP APIs entirely in a codec,
unless you're running
on Mac OS 9.1 or later.
The reason for this is that
any page faults you hit,
if you're unlucky,
any page faults can only be serviced
in one of those wetnext event calls.
And as I said, they might not happen.
This is fixed quite nicely
in Mac OS 9.1 and it's not a
problem at all on Mac OS X.
Finally, if you're writing a decompressor
and you divide your work up,
Enter MP Tasks.
You should be careful that you
don't have one of them right to one
part of the screen and the other
right to another part of the screen,
because you could see
unpleasant tearing artifacts,
which can be annoying.
Well, if you do that, you'll see.
That's all for me.
I'd like to hand over now to Tom Dowdy.
Thank you.
So I'm yet another member of
the professional video team,
and what I'm going to talk to you today
about is some upcoming changes we've
got with QuickTime effects architecture.
Now up to this point we've
been talking about things that
are available in QuickTime 5,
you could take advantage of today.
We're going to be showing off some
stuff that's going to be coming
in future versions of QuickTime,
but the reason we're going to talk
about this today is that some of
these features you'll be able to
get ready for in advance of the
code actually being available.
This is of interest to you either if
you're a developer that takes advantage
of the built-in QuickTime effects,
or if you're a developer who
creates QuickTime effects yourself.
We're going to be talking about two new
optional specifications that effects
can provide or applications can take
advantage of to allow the grouping
of effects into classifications or
groupings that make sense either for
the user or for you in the application.
We're also going to talk about
a feature called effect presets,
which allows an effect that has a large,
complicated set of parameters to
provide the user with a very simple
user interface for getting to them.
And that's enough of that.
Let's do a demo right away.
Can I have demo 4 please?
So there's no point in showing
you something new without showing
you what was there before.
So this is the existing effects dialog
that's been provided since QuickTime 3.
It's a standard way for applications
to get to parameters and features
of the QuickTime effects.
As you can see, effects can have a large
number of various parameters,
and it's nice to have a standard way
to provide a user interface for this.
But another thing you might
notice is that we do tend to have
an awful lot of effects here,
and a big, long scrolling list
is no fun for anybody,
particularly if you can't make
it any bigger because you can't
resize the dialog or anything else.
Well, let's get rid of that
and solve the problem.
So one of the first things you'll
notice is that the list on the
left-hand side here has been
grouped into classes of effects.
Another thing you'll notice is that we've
got plenty of screen real estate now.
So let's just make that dialogue
nice and big and widen that on out.
We've got plenty of room now.
Yay.
We're in the 90s.
So what a user can do is they
can choose particular effects
they might be wanting to do.
So for example, filtering,
they can see the effects that
are classified as filters.
Let's just go ahead
and pop these all open.
will populate the whole dialogue there.
This is information that's provided
by the effects and is available
both to this particular dialogue
and also to your application.
One of the other things I should point
out is that we're going along here,
you might see some other
features that aren't exactly in
my list that I originally had.
For example, the resizing and the
regrowing of the split bars.
You can pay attention to those and
decide whether or not we're actually
going to do anything with them.
We talked about presets.
So here's an example of an effect
that's using the new preset features.
This is the slide effect,
and it provides two presets
for a slide from the top or
a slide up from the bottom.
The user can simply choose
the preset that they want.
They've got a picture that more or less
shows them what's going to happen and a
name that probably helps them as well.
What's actually behind each of the
presets is the full list of parameters
that are available to the effect.
User can go see that as well and see
that this particular slide is going
with an angle from zero to zero,
which is a slide from the top.
Users can still go to this
optional parameter section here
with the custom and make a change.
For example, set the starting angle here
and then set the ending angle
to something nice and big.
And now we've got a slide that's
kind of spiraling around there.
Another example of an effect
that uses the presets is a
new channel composite effect.
Who knows whether we'll ship this or not?
I'm just showing you.
This is an effect that performs a
combining of channels from multiple
sources to produce a new source.
It's often done when you have maps
that have been pulled from video,
particularly in the professional
video or film market,
and you want to combine them
together to obtain an alpha track
that you're then going to alpha
or composite with other tracks.
When you do this,
the maps are sometimes pulled positive,
pulled negative.
The actual alpha value may
already be in the alpha channel.
It might not.
It might be down in the RGB values.
So we provide mechanisms
for selecting these basic
options that users would need.
But if they want to,
hidden behind the presets are all
the actual parameters that are used.
So, for example,
you can pull the values from different
channels and different things,
and you get very strange combinations.
Once again, there's no reason for the
effect to have been written,
with this limited set of
presets that we see here.
But those presets are most commonly used,
so that users who don't need the
more crazy features or optional
features of the effect don't
need to be concerned with them.
And I think that's all
I have to show here.
That's it.
So let's go back to slides.
[Transcript missing]
With the major class,
effects have been divided
or classified as to what is
their function in this sense,
and you can limit the scope of what
the user has to choose between.
Like most of the options
that are in effects,
the major class is defined by
an atom that's placed in the
effect description container.
Now you see here listed the
class type and ID for this and
the values that we provide.
Now in the case of the major class,
because applications are
essentially going to be hard
coding themselves to certain
classifications for the major class,
this list is rigid and has to be
defined by Apple and agreed upon by both
components that are being implemented
and applications that want to use it.
So we've defined this list here,
which you can make use of.
Now if you and your effect don't
define what your major class is,
you're going to be grouped
into miscellaneous,
which may or may not be what you want.
So, if you're an effect
developer creating effects,
you're going to be
wanting to add this atom.
If you're an application developer that
needs to limit the effects the user sees
to make the user's experience easier,
you can take advantage of this to do so.
Effect Minor Class is
used for the UI grouping,
like I said, and that was,
just to reiterate,
that was used to make the twist-down
triangles in the dialogue you saw there.
Once again, no surprise,
it's an atom that's placed in
the effect description that
describes the minor class.
You see here the atom types
and IDs that are used for that,
and the contents is one of a number
of ones that Apple has defined here.
We welcome input from
third-party developers.
We've already solicited some already
as to what types of groupings
that you would like to see.
And any of the standard
ones you see here,
Apple's going to be providing the,
will automatically interpret those and
provide the strings to display to the
user within the standardized dialogue.
So here's some, and here's some more.
And here's some more.
And once again, if you don't tell us what
kind of minor class you are,
then you're miscellaneous.
If you aren't happy with these,
unlike the major class,
the minor classes can be
extended by the effect.
You can supply a custom string that
corresponds to your minor class's name.
The types and IDs of that
atom are specified here.
And that string will then be used
in place of the standardized,
I'm sorry, in place of your OS type
for your minor class,
which you probably wouldn't
want to see in a scrolling list.
If you, however,
specify a minor class that's
one of the standardized ones,
we'll be supplying a string for that,
so it's not something
you need to worry about.
[Transcript missing]
And with that,
I'm going to turn back over to Jean-Mi,
who's going to talk a little
bit about hardware and OS X.
I'm back again.
So apparently somebody figured out
that with my first run of the slide,
without any graphics
and without any demo,
I couldn't make the
whole room fall asleep,
so they gave me another chance this time.
So we're going to talk
about hardware again,
but this time related to Mac OS X.
And what I'm going to try
to do is explain to you,
if you are coming from
the Mac OS 9 world only,
and you have been doing stuff
that was totally legitimate to do,
at least nobody was
preventing you to not do that,
how you should move your hardware
component to be able to run on Mac OS X.
So first,
let's have the bad news out of our way.
So you can no longer do direct access
from your component to your own hardware.
That's definitely something you
could do online and you can no
longer do as soon as you run on OS X.
You need a driver layer abstraction.
Before
When I say before it's mostly on 9,
I mean you could make all this
access from your own component
because 9 was basically,
I mean,
having a flat space when everybody
could access to anything,
anywhere in the entire system.
So the need of a driver is
no longer an option for 10.
And the last bad news is that bringing
up your own hardware and debugging it
is a little bit more complicated on 10.
Because basically you're going to have
to live with two different pieces.
One is going to be in the kernel space,
which is your driver,
and then you're going to need
some kind of debugging tool.
And the other one is
the component itself,
which lives in the user space,
and you have some different
kind of tool to debug that.
So, I mean,
bringing up your stuff is going to
be a little bit more complicated.
So, let's talk about the good news now.
Well, if you already have an
existing driver layer on 9,
or at least if you have a library
to make all your hardware,
I'd say you're pretty
much almost all set.
All that you're going to have
to do is move this piece to 10,
and your component
should be up and running.
If you don't have one today, even on 9,
we do recommend that you go through the
exercise on 9 before you move to 10,
because you will be able not
only to make sure that you've
isolated all your hardware access,
and on top of that, moving forward,
you'll be able to maintain
the same version for 9 and 10,
which will be something that
your customer will appreciate.
And the last thing is
that when you're done,
you will probably never
want to come back to 9.
I mean,
the memory prediction scheme built
inside 10 is definitely going to help
you figure out all the issues you have
been fighting for all over the years.
So what's the Mac OS X driver model?
Well, as I said before,
this driver belongs to the
kernel space and unfortunately
components live in the user space.
If your hardware is based on an
existing family like USB or FireWire,
what you should do is provide a
driver using this family so the
stuff you have to write on your
driver is much smaller than bringing
up a full driver implementation.
So if you deal with this kind of device,
you should take advantage of what
OS X provides in terms of family.
They are helping you
with a bunch of stuff.
If you have a very high-end system that
OS X has not been able to modelize,
right?
We don't really know
what you are doing there.
It's way too complicated
to put that on the OS side.
Then you don't have that many choices.
You have to implement the
NIOkit library or a CFPlugin.
And the driver API you are coming
up with is your full responsibility.
I mean,
nobody is going to decide what kind
of API is going through this driver.
It's up to you.
And that's why I was talking about 9.
I mean, if you can validate all
this stuff running 9,
I mean, your life will be much
easier when you move to 10.
So the big no-no is on Mac OS X, right?
As I said, you cannot read write register
anymore or even physical PCI memory
from within your component.
It belongs to your space and
the OS will not let you do that.
The other point which is less obvious
when you're trying to bring up your
hardware on X is that QuickTime passed
some completion proc to some component,
mostly codecs, video digitizer,
and all this stuff.
And these completion procs
belong to the user space.
They are within QuickTime,
which is in the user space as well.
So if you were doing,
if you are calling this
completion proc before from
your own internet handler on 9,
everything was fine.
You can no longer do that on 10.
You're going to have to come
up with some new mechanism
that we'll talk about later.
And the last thing is that you
cannot hold the CPU anymore.
This used to be something that you can
do from a component on OS 9 at least.
But this OS is fully preemptive OS,
so a thread will preempt you not
only to call another component,
but your own component will
be called from another thread.
So if you expect to hold the
CPU to execute a component
of action on your hardware,
this is not doable from
within your component anymore.
So do you do all this stuff on 10?
Well,
only access your hardware on your driver,
as I said.
And you are going to
have to create a thread,
at least in your component,
to call all this QuickTime completion
proc in order to manage to
live in the same user space.
How you do that,
basically there is some services from
the OS which allows you to send messages
via Mac port.
So your kernel thread will be
able to wake up your user space
thread and you will be able to
call the QuickTime completion
product safely in there.
So, a couple of things to
know about this stuff.
I mean, crossing kernel space
is not totally free.
I mean, it doesn't take that long,
but it takes some time.
So, when you're bringing your hardware,
make sure that you minimize the number
of calls that you do to your own driver,
especially during the
initialization process.
I mean,
don't try to come up with API when
you're going to set a bit per call,
so it's going to take forever
to have your hardware ready.
The last thing is that threads
are very cool as soon as you
understand what you are doing,
but you should never forget
that as soon as you add a
thread on your component side,
you're going to add some
load on the OS side.
So, before going ahead and
creating a new thread,
think about, I mean,
trying to share them between all your
components and your different piece of
component that you expose to QuickTime.
Thank you.
Well,
I guess that's pretty much it for our
QuickTime for Professional Video session.
We have a couple of other sessions
running today and tomorrow.
And the one you should definitely
go is the QuickTime feedback forum,
which is usually pretty packed.
So if you have any questions
that you want us to answer,
you should definitely be there and
be there early because you might
not be able to get into the room.
So if you have any questions about all
the stuff we have been talking about
in this professional video session,
you should contact Jeff Lowe at
jeffloew@apple.com and he will
be able to get in touch with us.
So if you need more detailed
information about all the stuff
that we've been talking about,
you should definitely go to
developer.apple.com/quicktime.
We have a full documentation
about what's new in QuickTime 5,
and you will find in there all the stuff
we were specifically talking about.
There is also another
place on this website,
which is called the Ice Flows,
where you have some explanation
about all this rendering,
this pixel format,
and the effects stuff that
Tom has been talking about.
If you didn't quite understand all
the stuff that Tim was talking about,
about YUV space, gamma, off-road rate,
and all this issue behind that,
we do recommend to read this
book from Charles Poynton,
which is called "A Technical Introduction
to Digital Video." There is a
lot of information in there to
understand why it's so painful
to go through all this rendering process.
And the last thing is about
our QuickTime event this
October in Beverly Hills,
California.
So if you do all this
stuff about QuickTime,
you should definitely go there.
It's a chance for you to meet other,
I mean, third-party developers.
It's a chance to meet all the
QuickTime engineering crew,
which is usually going over there.
And it's a chance to hear
about what's new in QuickTime.
And that's pretty much it.
Thank you very much.